THE EGYPTIAN GAZETTE, MONDAY, JULY 31, 1905.
(From a CoRRESPONDENt. )
On Thursday last, a most successful small dance was held at Suez on board the E.T.C. cable ship Electra by the captain and officers. The ship’s quarter-deck was the temporary ball room and a most excellent one it made, tastefully decorated with flags of all descriptions , the awnings overhead being roofed in with the ensigns of all nations, while electric lights in Chinese lanterns shed a soft and romantic light on the brilliant and cheerful assembly, chief of whom was H. E. the Governor, who was-apparently in the best of spirits and greatly pleased with everything. The deck made an excellent floor and the music was of the best, the hosts being fortunate in procuring the services of Mile Gladulich, who played the piano to perfection, thus greatly adding to the success of the evening. The piano was placed in quite a Kittle bower, viz, on a raised platform at the stern draped round with flags and decorated with plants.
The night was perfect for the occasion and Captain Sparks and his officers missed but very few of their friends, who included practically all the English-speaking community of Suez. 2 a.m. say the end of one of the most successful small dances ever held on board ship in Suez the hosts being amply repaid for their trouble and the care taken over the decora-tions, by the enthusiastic admiration expressed on all hands.
STEAMER MOVEMENTS.
VLADIVOSTOK BLOCKADED. THE BORGO INTERVIEW. LOCAL AND GENERAL.
JAPANESE OVERRUNNING SAGHALIEN.
SHARP FIGHTING.
Tokio, July 29.
A strong Japanese squadron is blockading Vladivostok.	(Reuter.)
Tokio, July 29.
A Japanese squadron is blockading Vladivostok.	(Havae.)
Tokio, July 30.
The Japanese are steadily overrunning Saghalien and dislodging theRnssians from the suocessive positions taken up by them. They drove out the enemy on the 28th inst. with considerable loss from the vicinity of Rykoff, and captured the town after some sharp but confused street fighting. Subsequently they1 encountered 800 Russians to the south of that town, killed 200 men and captured 500.
(Reuter.)
RUSSIAN CENSORSHIP.
St. Petersburg, July 29.
The censorship throughout Russia is becoming increasingly stringent Many suspensions have been ordered in connection with the reform agitation. The leading newspaper, the "Novosti, "has been suspended for two months.
(Reuter.)
DISORDERS IN WARSAW.
WARSAW, July 80.
Strike disorders and murders oontinue here. The police is completely disorganised.(Reuter.)
NIJNI NOVGOROD FAIR.
Nijni NOVGOROD, July 29.
The great fair was opened yesterday. The town was almost empty and the majority of the shops were shut	(Reuter.)
ST. PETERSBURG, July 29.
The great fair of Nijni Novgorod is almost deserted.	(Havas.)
GERMANY AND THE BALTIC.
GERMANY AND THE BALTIC.
OUTCRY AGAINST NAVAL CRUISE Berlin, July 29.
The forthcoming cruise of the British Channel Squadron is causing a great outcry here. The Conservative newspapers claim that the Baltic 8ea must be regarded as being exclusively controlled by the countries bordering it, and Sweden, Denmark, and Russia being unable to say much, Germany must be considered the mistress of that sea.	(Reuter.)
SWEDEN AND NORWAY.
CHRISTIANIA, July 29. The Storthing has unanimously adopted the Swedish proposals regarding the plebiscite.
(Reuter.)
Christiania, July 29. The Storthing has decided that the plebiscite on the question of disunion with Sweden shall take place on the 13th August next (Havas.)
GENERAL ELECTION PROSPECTS. LIKELY TO TAKE PLACE IN AUTUMN.
London, July 30.
There is a growing belief that the General Election will take place in the Autumn. The Scottish Conservative candidates have been officially warned to be ready before the end
of October.	(Reuter.)
THE HELLENIC MINISTRY.
ATHENS, July 30.
M. Boudouris has been appointed Minister of War and M. Delyannis Minister of Marine (Havas.
ZIONIST CONGRESS.
AIMS IN PALESTINE
BasEl, July 30.
After a stormy discussion the Zionist Congress held here has rejected the offer of territory in Uganda and resolved to ask the British Government to use its influence to promote Zionist aims in Palestine	(Reuter.)
CRICKET.
London, July 29.
Australians beat Surrey by 22 runs. Sussex beat Hampshire by 6 wickets. Leicestershire beat Derbyshire by 87 runs. Essex beat Middle-sex by 7 wickets.	(Reuter.)
STRANGE REPORT OF MEETING.
KAISERS ADVICE TO TSAR
8t. Petersburg, July 30. In the Borgo interview the Emperor William is said to have advised the Tsar to continue the war, guaranteeing him the maintenance of peace in Europe and promising him financial aid.	(Havas.)
THE TSAR AND PEACE.
St. Petersburg, July 3 The Tsar, in replying to a petition urging him not to conclude a shameful peace, says :— The Russian people may rely on me that I will never make a dishonorable or an unworthy peace."	(Reuter.)
JAPS NOT OPPOSED TO ARMISTICE.
New York, July 29.
Mr. Sato, during an interview, stated that Japan was perfectly willing to agree to an armistice after the credentials of the plenipotentiaries had been examined. (Reuter.)
GENERAL STOESSEL
St. Petersburg, June 30. General Stoessel has been relieved of the command of the Siberian Corps.	(Havas.)
THE KAISER GOES TO DENMARK.
Dantzio, July 30.
The Emperor William has left for Copenhagen.	(Havas.)
THE “ENTENTE CORDIALE."
ENTERTAINMENT OF FRENCH OFFICERS.
London, July 29.
The whole programme for the entertainment of the French officers in August is most elaborate and comprises Royal luncheons at Cowes and Windsor. The luncheon at the Guildhall is the culmination of that in Westminster Hall, which is regarded as quite an exceptional compliment	(Reuter)
YELLOW FEVER IN NEW ORLEANS.
New Orleans, July 29. Numerous cases of yellow fever have taken place here. The illness is spreading to other cities.	(Reuter.)
PASSENGER LISTS.
ARRIVALS.
Le paquebot “Imperatrix" arrivé ce matin de Trieste avait á bord :
: MM. A. Nourrisson, Prince et Princesse Dabija et leur fille, A. Tilche, Rd. P. E Danb-daty, Sanohamran et 2 de fam., J. Botton, Fondor, Raffaty, M. et Mme Ennemberger, Kassran, Wachtel, Chatularis.Piocioto, Francis, Cap. Lord, Bunaki, Cap. Changer, MmeWherli, Giuli, M. et Mme Rocheram, Stanton,Vaughan, Pilpel, et 22 passagers de 3e classe.
DEPARTURES.
Le paquebot "Portugal,’’ des Messageries Maritimes. parti vendredi dernier, pour Marseille, avait á bord :
Mme M. de C. Tindlay, M.Ducros, M. Hury, famille Alex. Padoa, M. et Mme Tracca, Mme Rivelli et enfants, M. Ismaïl Behanassem.Mrs. Mensalony bey et fils, Mme Golay, M., Mme et MDe Kouri Hadad, M. Kindineco, M. Constan-rido, M. Theodoridés, M. Choukri pacha, Mme Boustros et enfants, M. Hassan, M. Jullien, M. Behor Barki, famille Cúmbo, M. Abani pacha; famille Azouri bey, Mme Yansoun, M. et Miles Allen, M. Sabagh, M. Malaval, M.
et Mme Gontier et enfants, Mme Vve Maggiar, M. Suzzarini, M. Hayter.M. Eynard, Mlle Weisse G., M. et Mme Papasian, Mme Lefrancois, M. et Mme Purvis, M. Spurgeon, M. le Dr. Gebert, M. et Mme Tindlay, Père Bernardallo, Pères Eugène et Pierre Sœure Lucie et Adèle, M. John Pickles, Mlle Che-vrier, Mlle Agopian, Frères Rogatus, Oger, Anselme, Jacques et Prosper, M. Bonnard, M. et Mme Playoult. Mlle Haccad, M. Maspero, M. Humphreys, M. E Dombre, M. Boinet Bey, M. Herbert, M. et Mme Bemish et bébé, M.
C. Crawley, Capt James, Mme Sionnetti, Mme L Marey, M. F. Harwood, Péres Barreau, Berdiet Genevrier, Miguès et Frendergart, M. Nagib Ibrahim Said, Ml G. Nassour, M. Fred. Burrill, M. et Mme Homery, M. Salim Dagher.
Le paquebot Imperator du Lloyd Autrichien parti samedi pour Trieste avait à bord:
M.M. C. D. Ambry, A. Alty Bey, M. Adamson, Anhourv, Is. Bey Assem, Mme Besold et fille, Mme Boettichese, Mme H. Bertésch, J,
I. Cornish, G. Coronel, J. Caralis, G. Ehmann,
E W. Pore Foster, Garofalo, file et fille, J. H. Goddard, Major K. Herbert, J. Kahel Bey, F. Kezek, Mme Kerchmeyer, Mme Jul Koch, M. et Mme Levi, fille et mineur, V. Liters, P. Mavroidi, M. et Mme Mavroidi, Mondolfo et fam., Mich. Nicola, Dr. J. Chev. do Puscariu, Consul I. et R, Ribulla et sœur, Ib. J. Salama, S. Sasson, M. et Mme Sasson et 2 enfants, J. Sleith, Tatoli, Tyszka, Valensin et famille, Walter. Berzi, sœur Clémentine, Mme Deles-
champs et fils, Mme L Israil, P. Leonari sœur
Marie, Nh. Mattatia, Ch. Otto, G. Padovani.
sœur Pinzholz, sœur Plats, C. Techet, E. Vas-
solo et fam., S. Ventura, Mme Werner et 34
passagers de 3me classe.
The Cyprus Journal for July contains a large amount of interesting matter, mainly pertaining to agriculture.
Rotations.—The rotations now enforced in the 2nd Circle of Irrigation are published in Saturday’s “Journal Officiel.”
New Telephone Lines.—Seven new lines of telephone are to be erected in the Markaz of Toukh, Galionbieh province.
Murderer Arrested. — The police of the Karmous kism have arrested a criminal from Assiout who has been "wanted” for some little time on a charge of murder.
Kasr El Aini Hospital.—The examination for admission to the medical school for sick nurses and midwives at Kasr el Aini Hospital will be held on the 8th October.
Theft oF Telephone Wire. — The police are in search of some unknown individuals who cut and carried away a hundred and fifty yards of telephone wire belonging to the
Daira Khassa near Kom el Dik Fort.
Cart Accident.—An Arab boy, while flying a kite near Bab Sidra, was run over by a cart and received severe injuries to the head and neck. The driver has been arrested and the injured lad taken to hospital.
Suez Canal. — 12 vessels passed through the Canal on the 27th inst, of which 9 were British, 1 German, 1 French, 1 Italian. The day's receipts were frs. 319,373.39, making the total from the 1st inst. frs. 7,824,263.84.
Sisters Street keeps up its character. A Greek, who was the worse for liquor, took, advantage of a quarrel which occurred between some Arabs and a group of his countrymen yesterday, to stab one of the former in the thigh.
Stray and Ownerless DoGs found in the Pont de Koubbeh quarter of Cairo daring to-night and at daybreak to-morrow, and in the Boulac quarter to-morrow night and at daylight on Wednesday, will be poisoned by the police.
New Kuttabs.—Our Zagazig Correspondent states that up to now LE. 6,400 has been collected for the new kuttabs that are to be created in Sbarkieh province, the Bandar and Markaz of Zagazig subscribing LE. 1,400 and Fakous Markaz LE. 1,350.
The Ways of the Turk.—The chief ulema of Tripoli in Syria, Sheikh Mohamed El Raffei, has been put under arrest and his house searched from top to bottom. The Turkish police, on being asked to explain their conduct, could only say that the sheikh was known to bo a friend of the late Grand Mufti of Egypt: We should have thought that such a recommendation should have saved him from molestation, but they order matters otherwise in the Ottoman dominions.
The PlaGue.—Saturday’s bulletin records four fresh oases (one fatal) and a death in hospital at Alexandria. The three cases admitted to hospital were (1) an Italian woman living near the Mahmoudieh Canal, (2) the Sudanese servant of a house in Rosetta-street, (3) a native street sweeper of Eyouni. The fatal case was that of another sweeper who was found dead at the Ragheb Pasha esheshes. A case was also reported from Port Said. Yesterday's bulletin records two fatal cases at Alexandria, the victims being a native carter and a native coffee-house keeper.
Corporation of Western EGypt, Ltd.—The directors have placed orders for further steam drillers, which will be shipped to Egypt at the earliest possible date. These steam drillers will be located at the Corporation’s depot at Farshut on the Nile as a reserve against any possible breakdown on the part of those at present in the Khargeh Oasis. It is the intention of the board to work these latter in double shifts with an extra staff of men so as to obtain maximum results. Spare parts in connection with all drillers are also being provided, in order that the success of the well-boring operations, shortly to be resumed on a much larger scale, may be completely assured.
Anglo-American Nile Steamer.
& HOTEL COMPANY.
RIVER TRANSPORT Of 00008 BETWEEN ALEXANDRIA & CAIRO Three Sailings a-Week. Agents at Alexandria:— ALEXANDRIA BONDED WAREHOUSE CO. LR. 
BECK & CO’S PILSENER BEER
BREMEN.
FEARS no, HONEST COMPETITION FOR QUALITY N.B.-Inferior Brands now being offered to Man ager of certain good cereles.
Beware of svllly disposed competitors ranting
down this very Ewyerior Brand of Ross
ARISTON AERATED WATERS
Guaranteed Distilled. ALEXANDRIA : CAIRO:
FAYOUM LIGHT RAILWAY.
ANNUAL REPORT.
Wo have received a copy of the proceedings of the general meeting of the Fayoum Light Railway Company, held at the company's Cairo office on June 9 last, Khalid Bey Loutfi being in the chair.
The report of the administrative board was
 R ead to the shareholders present. It stated that in spite of several requests by letter the Ministry of Public Works had not yet given its consent to the construction of a line from Bioufi toKiman Farès. L. E. 1,123.646mm.,being the balanoe left in hand after the payment of coupons No. 1 and No. 2, had been carried over to the acounts of the current year. The Mixed Court of Appeal had agreed to the demand of the company that expert examination of the various bureaux of the company should be made, but the experts had ceased to visit the bureaux though their task was still incomplete. The provisional modifications in the passenger tariff had proved so satisfactory both to the public and to the company, that it had been decided to confirm them. The arrangements made for the transport of goods from all the oompany’s stations to those of the State Railway Administration and vice verea had proved beneficial to the public, if they had not been of great advantage to the company, which had agreed to the demand of the Railway Administration that it should forward goods from its stations to Port Said and El Kantara. During the year dating from March 1, 1904, to February 28, 1905, the general situation of the company was as follows. The condition of the lines and the traffic were satisfactory. An able European engineer had been engaged who had organised the repairing work in the ateliers, and altered and improved the time-table. It had been decided to dispense with the services of Rangabe Bey, ex-director of the company, who would be temporarily replaced by Mohamed Effendi Gazim. The oompany’s receipts showed an increase of LE 4,091.166m.m. on the figures of the previous year, while the expenses had only increased by L.E. 882.876mm. This rise was entirely due to the increased traffic on the company’s lines. The total profits for the year, after making every deduction, amounted to L.E 8,546.676m.m. Permission was demanded to pay the sum of LE 8,143.200mm., the total of thetwooou-pons, viz., 5,220 bonds of the 1st and 2nd issue at 16s. the soupon, as follows : coupons No. 3 and No. 4 from 4,500 bonds of the 1st issue and ooupons No. 2 and 3 from the 720 bonds of the 2nd issue, the payment to be made as follows : — Coupons No. 8 of the first issue and ooupons No. 2 of the seoond issue, falling due on December 81, 1902, to be paid on Jaly 9, 1905; coupons No. 4 of the first and ooupons No. 8 of the second issue, all of which fall due on December 31, 1903, to be paid off on Augnst 9, 1905, the remainder of the profits to be carried over to the aoooonts of the current year. This was unanimously agreed to after the balance-sheet, profit and loss ac-count, and auditors’ report had been presented to the general meeting. The report of the accountants was also passed and it was decided that the board should appoint account ants for next year, A. Adib Bey having informed the meeting that he was unable to continue to fill the post. Certain land owners having presented proposals for the extension of the Kalamsha line to Abon Hamad, it was decided to submit these proposals to the board and empower it, if it considered these proposals advantageous, to re-port on them and call an extraordinary general meeting to which the project should be submitted.
ESN EH BARRAGE.
The plans for the Emeh Barrage have been completed and approved by the Ministry of Public Works. They will not, however, be published till the end of October, when tenders will be invited.
THE YEMEN RISING.
The Turkish transports Chark and Mecca, with 700 hones and nearly l,000 troops on board, have passed through the Suez Canal en route for Hodeida.
It is stated that the Sultan has ordered an ice-factory and a distilling apparatus to be set up at Hodeida for the benefit of the troops, who suffer terribly from the want of good water and the murderous heat of the fever stricken “Tehama" or coast belt.
CONSTANTINOPLE NOTES.
THE BOMB OUTRAGE.
( From our Correspondent ).
Constantinople, July 25. The telegraphic agencies will have given you full information of the odious attempt against the person of H. I. M. the Sultan. Among the first telegrams received by our Sovereign congratulating him on his escape, was one from the Khedive of Egypt. The Saltan was greatly touched by the telegram, and replied in a warm message of thanks.
ANGLO-EGYPTIAN BANK.
There is some talk here of the creation, in the near future, of a branch of the Anglo-Egyptian Bank at Constantinople. Should the project be carried out trade between Egypt and Turkey would gain enormously.
WASSIF PASHA.
Wasif Pasha left Constantinople for Fratioe last week,
NOTES FROM PORT SAID.
ARRIVAL OF THE KUBAN.
(From our Correspondent).
- Port Saïd, Sunday.
The Russian auxiliary cruiser Kuban, one of the vessels , which the. Russian Admiralty purchased from the Hamburg-Amerika Line, arrived last evening from the Canal and has lain here all night She is to sail this evening for Libau. The vessel, which has a crew of 500 men and steams 22 knots, displaces 8,490 tons. She was with the squadron at the Battle of Tsushima, and remained some few hours,within signalling distance of Rodjestvensky's battle-ships, using her five 4-7 guns. When the torpedo destroyer flotilla .was jet loose on what remained of the Russian vessels, the, Kuban retreated at full speed and eventually escaped without injury. The Kuban lay in Saigon for the usual period and then proceeded. I understand the case of the Fazilka is the only one of .the kind that has occurred since the Kuban started on her homeward voyage. She does not coal here, though permission to do so has been granted, and has only taken a limited quantity of provisions and water.
DEPARTURE OF CONSUL
Mr. D. A. Cameron is to leave here on Tuesday in the homeward going P. & 0. mail steamer and will be replaced by the Vice-Consul daring the three months in which he will be on leave.
HARBOUR IMPROVEMENTS.
I hear on excellent authority that Messrs. Dowrie & Co., who are the lessees of the point bearing their name, have been paid an indemnity for loss of frs. 600,000 by the Canal Company. The piece of. land on which their works stood originally belonged to the British Admiralty, and the Canal Company, in the harbour widening which is now going on, decided to remove the point to the extent of some 35 metres. To this end they communicated with the Admiralty and I believe a large piece of land behind Navy House has been given them in exchange, thus putting the Canal Company in the position of landolords to Dowrie & Co., —result, this heavy indemnity.
SERIOUS CANAL INCIDENT.
The steamer Newton Hall, having been ordered to tie up close to Kilo. 133 in the Canal, sent her lines ashore in the usual way. Some form of discussion appears to have taken place with some Arabs who are working on the Canal bank repairs, which terminated in the latter throwing the mooring boatmen into the Canal. The immediate result was that the vessel was unable to tie up, fell across the stream, and went ashore. The ship’s boat was lowered and an officer and boat’s crew from the ship sent to carry the lines to the proper post, but they appear to have received the same treatment. During these attempts the vessel managed to get one of her hawsers round her propeller, thus putting a climax to her chapter of misfortunes. She is at present incapable of movement, but divers will be sent to her to-day and hopes are expressed that she may be able to proceed shortly. The Canal Company are holding an enquiry into the matter, which is of the utmost gravity, and may, if it occur again, cause a blocking of the traffic. It is by no means the first case of its kind.
Port Said, Sunday, 1 p.m.
The Newton Hall is proceeding all well and will be here to-night
NOTES FROM SUEZ.
DANCE ON THE ELECTRA.
(From our Financial CORRESPONDENT)) London,. July 21.
The past week’s stock markets, although
distinctly better in tone, offer little opportunity to your correspondent to write much of inter est There continues to be a good demand for investment stocks, and there is certainly a growing feeling of confidence in the hope of a good result of the peace conference, especially as the general opinion is that this has by no means been discounted here.
The mining section cannot be said to be “out of the wood,” for mining securities are being looked at more and more askance by the banks, and loans to mining firms are by no means easy t) negotiate. This adversely affects the Egyptian Mining section,—a treatment it does not deserve. An exellent export of United Afri-cans has followed the good export of the Nile Valley Company. Although the market has certainly improved, it has not responded. so readily as it would have done under better general conditions.
Other Egyptian securities are steady, with little doing. Land shares are practically unchanged, and Banks firm, the strongest point being Agricultural Banks at 14, for reasons to which we drew attention last week.
Gilt-edged stocks are quite neglected and Consols have declined ,1 to 90 for money and 90 for the account. The new Japanese loan is offered at 1 premium for the special settlement, the previous issue being quoted at 93. Russians are inclined to be easier.

PERSONAL AND SOCIAL
Mgr. Aurelio Briante has returned to Alex andria from Cairo.
Mr. Maloolm Mellwraith, the Judicial Adviser, was invested with the Order of St. Michael and St George by H. M. the King at Bucking-ham Palace last Monday.
Mr. Dupuis, Inspector-General of the Sudan Irrigation Service, leaves by the P. and O. boat to-morrow for a two months' holiday in England. Mr. Dupuis will then proceed to Canada and. the U.S.A. on the special mission
which has been assigned him, is the examina
tion on the spot of the most modern types of dredgers with a view to their employment on the upper waters of the Nile.
Mr. H. Carter Wilson has returned to and resumed his functions at the Ministry of the Interior.
The leave of Mr. Dunlop, Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Instruction, has been extended to the 21st August
CoL C. Rawnsley, D.S.O., commanding the Army Service Corps in Egypt, leaves for
Cyprus to-morrow in order to hold an inspec-
tion there.
Crookshank Pasha, who at present is doing the ‘'cure" at Vittel, near Contrexeville, is due in London on the 4th August for an important meeting of the directions of the Corporation of Western Egypt, and leaves immediately after-wards for a month’s salmon fishing on the Sandal River in Norway.
A marriage has been arranged and will shortly take place between Captain Claude Rome, 11th Hussars, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Rome of Charlton. House, Charlton Kings, Glencestarshire, and Grace, second daughter of Sir James Blyth, Bark, of Blyth-wood, Stansted,Essex, and 33, Portland place, W.
The Messageries Maritimes S.S. Senegal, from Marseilles, passed the Straits of Messina on Saturday and is due at Alexandria to- morrow morning.
The Ellerman S.S. City of Oxford, from Liverpool, Gibraltar, and Malta, arrived here on Friday with general cargo and passengers.
The Ellerman S.S. Bulgarian, from Alex-. andria, arrived at Liverpool on Thursday.
The Moss liner Rameses sailed from Liverpool on Friday last and is due here
A cable to the "New York Herald” (Paris) from New York of last Sunday’s date states:— “Miss Antoinette Sherman, 'daughter of Mrs. Frederick. Sherman, of Paris, was married yes terday to Georges Gabriel Abdel Messih Bey, of Cairo, at the home of the bride’s uncle, Mr. Charles de Rahm, in Fifth avenne. The bridegroom is a wealthy Persian. The bride is one of the wealthiest American residents of Paris, and well-known in Newport society. The couple will probably reside in Paris.”
We regret to announce the death of Miralai Hassan Bey Sadik commandant of the Khedi-vial Guard and bandmaster-in-chief, which occurred at Dakma. Menonfieb province, on Thursday.
Since March, 1905, the grave of General Sir Hector MacDonald, in the Dean Cemestry, Edinburgh, has been unmarked. A monument has, however, now been erected by public subscription, and takes the form of an obelisk supported by cannon balls at each corner. In front of the base stands a pedestal with a bronze bust, showing Sir Hector in the uniform of an Aide-de-Camp to the King, displaying his many orders and medals, British and Egyptian.
M. Cortessi. a Greek notable of Cairo, has
presented 1,000 francs to the Greek Govern-
ment for military equipment.